**Category**|**SESAR\_element\_name**|**Proposed\_element\_name**|**Optionality**|**Definition**|**Additional\_instructions**|**Example**
:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
Header|Object Type|objectType|Mandatory (SESAR)|Object type of sample or specimen. |Use controlled list. **Requesting additional terms be added to list: filtrate, material captured in filter, organism. See: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kBETFbNoMfkgxbVhqiEJppCT2GaZYJUywucSKdblVJM/edit#gid=625226234|Core; Individual Sample
Header|User Code|userCode|Mandatory (SESAR)|User code to be used as prefix for IGSNs to be assigned or assigned by user in the submitted batch template.|If assigning IGSNs in the IGSN column, the user code must match the user code in the IGSNs. For example, if the user specifies IEMEG is the user code, any user-specified IGSNs must begin with IEMEG. If you do not specify the user code to be used, a default user code belonging to the registrant will be used.|IEMEG
Description|Sample Name|sampleName|Mandatory (SESAR)|Collector's project-specific sample name, which must be unique for each sample that you are submitting. Mandatory.|This Sample Name is a place where you can develop a sample ID that has meaning to you and may help in your internal, project sample management.|001-ER18-FO
Description|Other name(s)|otherName|Optional|Other sample name(s) that have been used in the past. |Use a semi-colon to delimit multiple names where needed.|001ER18FO; 001ER18-FO
Description|IGSN|IGSN|Recommended|Leave blank if you want SESAR to assign the IGSN, which is recommended. |For split samples/subsamples, you can assign your own 1-2 character extensions from the Parent IGSN, and submit your own IGSNs for registering these child samples.  This is not required, but is an option if desired. For assigning your own IGSNS, you must use upper-case alpha-numeric characters. |IEMEG0001
Description|Parent IGSN|parentIGSN|Required, if relevant|The larger sample from which a child sample was derived. For example, a core section may be the parent of a series of subsamples or split samples. Parent and child samples are linked in the SESAR catalog. Sibling samples are inferred from parent-child relationships and are linked on the landing page for a sample.    |Leave blank if a parent IGSN does not exist. |IEMEG0002
Description|Release Date|releaseDate|Required - defaults to current date if not specified|Date when sample metadata should be publicly accessible and searchable. If null, defaults to date of registration in SESAR (recommended). |SESAR recommends that sample metadata become public within 2 years of sample registration.|3/15/18
Description|Material|material|Mandatory (SESAR)|Material that the sample consists of. Mandatory.|Please use controlled list . ESS-DIVE requesting additional terms for organisms, organic material, and water samples, see: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fdI1x\_nRUcGgcgWhwJZVNkNhVhTUPbHmB0inUEXcDUE/edit?ts=5eeb9683#gid=405062981 . |soil; sediment; surface water [ENVO:00002042]; groundwater [ENVO:01001004] 
Description|Field name (informal classification)|classification|Optional|Informal classification of sample. |free-text. Here you can add additional material classifications in the current SESAR IGSN controlled fields.  We will remove this field when object-type and material controlled terms are revised and expanded to accomodate ESS sample types.  |leaf, root
Description|Sample Description|sampleDescription|Recommended|Free text to describe features of a sample such as its components, texture, color, shape, treatments, plot ID from which the sample was taken, etc.|free-text|Day 223 core section from unheated control plot 1C of a deep soil warming experiment; Filter used for filtered surface water samples
Description|Collection method description|collectionMethodDescription|Required|Free text description of the collection method for the sample. Include any important terms and details for potential users to understand how your sample was collected.|free-text. Collection methods may often be the same across a series/collection of samples; there are two options for providing collection method details at a higher level. Option 1:  Create a separate file with metadata to describe a sample collection, which contains a "collectionID", and any associated metadata fields (e.g. "collectionMethodDescription", "Purpose", "Chief Scientist", etc.).  Option 2: Create a methods file, with a series of methods descriptions that are each associated with a "methodID" and an associated "methodDescription." |Example 1) "Collect soil samples from top 10 cm using 2-3 cores from with meadow plot or under the bulk of tree/shrub canopies."  Example 2) Excised branch. Example 3) Pumped water at specific depths using tubing connected to CTD.
Description|Purpose|purpose|Recommended|The purpose for collecting the sample. |free-text. Purpose may often be the same across a series/collection of samples; To avoid entering the same information across numerous samples, you can create a separate file with metadata to describe a sample collection, which contains a "collectionID", and any associated metadata fields (e.g. "collectionMethodDescription", "Purpose", "Chief Scientist", etc.). |Characterize the biogeochemistry, geochemistry and microbiology of soils associated with trees and shrubs. 
Description|Size|size|Optional|Size of the registered object, such as the surface area, length of a core, weight, or volume| |4; 6.8
Description|Size unit|sizeUnit|Optional|Unit for the numerical value provided for ‘size’.|Choose unit terms from the controlled list.  |square centimeter; kilogram
Location|Latitude (Coordinate system: WGS 84)|decimalLatitude|Required, if relevant|Latitude of the location where the sample was collected, entered in decimal degrees. Negative values for South latitudes.|Please supply no more than 6 decimal places (meter scale resolution) in the actual number (not just display format.) No letters are allowed.|5.89634
Location|Longitude (Coordinate system: WGS 84)|decimalLongitude|Required, if relevant|Longitude of the location where the sample was collected, entered in decimal degrees. Negative values for ‘West’ longitudes.|Please supply no more than 6 decimal places (meter scale resolution) in the actual number (not just display format.) No letters are allowed.|-103.785
Location|Elevation start|minimumElevationInMeters|Optional|Elevation at which a sample was collected. Minimum elevation value if elevation taken over a range.| |678.5
Location|Elevation end|maximumElevationInMeters|Optional|Maximum elevation at which a sample was collected, if elevation was taken over a range. | |689.2
Location|Elevation unit| |Optional|Unit in which elevation start and/or end are provided in. This will be removed when elevation field is changed to specify meters.  |Must be one of the following: meters, feet, miles, kilometers|meters
Location|Navigation type|geolocationInstrument|Recommended|Type of geolocation instrument used to obtain geographic coordinates.|Please use controlled list|GPS; RTK GPS
Location|Primary Physiographic feature|localEnvironmentalContext|Recommended|Entity or entities which are in your sample or specimen’s local vicinity and which you believe have significant causal influences on your sample or specimen. |Please use terms that are present in ENVO and which are of smaller spatial grain than your entry for env\_broad\_scale. Use ENVO terms, using the Ontology Lookup Service (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ols/ontologies/envo). Delimit multiple values using semi-colon. Example: Annotating a pooled sample taken from various vegetation layers in a forest consider: canopy [ENVO:00000047]; herb and fern layer [ENVO:01000337]; litter layer [ENVO:01000338]; understory [01000335]; shrub layer [ENVO:01000336]. If needed, request new terms on the ENVO tracker, identified here: http://www.obofoundry.org/ontology/envo.html|river [ENVO:00000022]; pond [ENVO:00000033]; wet meadow ecosystem [ENVO:01000449]; mountain [ENVO:00000081]
Location|Location description|locationDescription|Recommended|Free text description of the location. You can also include details here also about the location type, e.g. whether it is an absolute or reference location, plot ID and description.| |300 year old low-land tropical rainforest in Parque Natural San Lorenzo, Panama
Location|Country|country|Required|Country where the sample was collected|Please use controlled list. |United States
Location|Depth in Core (min)|minimumDepthInMeters|Required, if relevant|Minimum depth at which a sample was collected, below ground or under water. |Recommend using meters|0.001
Location|Depth in Core (max)|maximumDepthInMeters|Required, if relevant|Maximum depth at which a sample was collected, below ground or under water. |Recommend using meters|0.003
Location|Depth scale| |Required, if relevant|Unit in which the depth is provided| |meters
Collection details|Field program/Cruise|projectName|Required at package level, but want associated with samples when searched.|Enter the name of the DOE project to associate with this/these sample(s).|If multiple projects were involved, enter the project that had the largest contribution to this data package first, and separate entries with a semi-colon. Project Name may often be the same across a series/collection of samples; To avoid entering the same information across numerous samples, you can create a separate file with metadata to describe a sample collection, which contains a "collectionID", and any associated metadata fields (e.g. "Project Name", "collectionMethodDescription", "Purpose", "Chief Scientist", etc.).  |Next Generation Ecosystem Experiments (NGEE) Tropics; LBNL Watershed Function SFA 
Collection details|Collector/Chief Scientist|collector|Required|Name of the person(s) who collected the sample. You can enter multiple collectors/sampling team for large sampling efforts. If the collector(s) of the sample(s) is/are not known, enter name of the person responsible for the sample. |Separate multiple entries with a semi-colon|John Smith
Collection details|Collection date|collectionDate|Required|Date when the sample was collected. YYYY-MM-DD|All dates and times must be reported in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and follow the ISO 8601 standard (RFC 3339). Temporal data using different standards can be provided as a separate variable (column) in addition to UTC format.|3/31/15
Collection details|Collection time|collectionTime|Optional|Time when the sample was collected. HH:MM:SSZ|All dates and times must be reported in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and follow the ISO 8601 standard (RFC 3339). Temporal data using different standards can be provided as a separate variable (column) in addition to UTC format.|12:05:03Z
Curation|Current Archive|currentArchive|Optional|Only applies to physical samples that are archived in a collection for some period of time. Name of institution, museum, or repository where the sample is currently stored.| |Geosciences and Environmental Change Science Center, USGS Federal Center, Lakewood, CO
Curation|Current Archive Contact|currentArchiveContact|Optional|Address and/or email of the person who should be contacted for information about or access to the sample.|Email is not mandatory, but helps for communication about samples.|scientist@lbl.gov
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|biome|Recommended|Report which major environmental system your sample or specimen came from. The systems identified should have a coarse spatial grain, to provide the general environmental context of where the sampling was done (e.g. were you in the desert or a rainforest?). |We recommend using subclasses of ENVO’s biome class: http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/ENVO\_00000428. Format (one term): termLabel [termID]. Multiple terms can be separated by a semi-colon. If needed, request new terms on the ENVO tracker, identified here: http://www.obofoundry.org/ontology/envo.html|shrubland biome [ENVO:01000176]; tropical moist broadleaf forest biome [ENVO:01000228]; estuarine biome [ENVO:01000020]
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|collectionID|Optional|A unique identifier for the set of information associated with a collection of samples; collections may be organized around a particular project, data set, field season, region, site, etc. A collection identifier can be used to link a set of samples together, and/or to enable efficient entry of metadata that is the same across all samples in a "sample collection." |Must be unique within the data package (project-assigned, and does not need to be globally unique). See link to diagram that demonstrates linking related collection, site, event, and sample IDs.  |WSFA\_June2019
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|eventID|Optional|A unique identifier for the set of information associated with an Event (something that occurs at a place and time). An event identifier can be used to link a set of samples collected on a specific date,  and/or to enable efficient entry of metadata that is the same across these samples.|Must be unique within the data package (project-assigned, and does not need to be globally unique). See link to diagram that demonstrates linking related collection, site, event, and sample IDs.  |WSFA\_20191023
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|siteID|Optional|A unique identifier for the set of site location information. May be a global unique identifier or an identifier specific to the data set. For ESS-DIVE, a site identifier can be used to link a set of samples collected from a specific site,  and/or to enable efficient entry of metadata that is the same across these samples.|Must be unique within the data package (project-assigned, and does not need to be globally unique). See link to diagram that demonstrates linking related collection, site, event, and sample IDs.  |CoyoteRiver\_D22
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|coordinateUncertaintyInMeters|Recommended|The horizontal distance (in meters) from the given decimalLatitude and decimalLongitude describing the smallest circle containing the whole of the Location. Leave the value empty if the uncertainty is unknown, cannot be estimated, or is not applicable (because there are no coordinates). Zero is not a valid value for this term. In most cases, a value reflecting the precision and accuracy of the GPS instrument used to obtain coordinates is appropriate here.  Many GPS instruments will provide a precision along with coordinates that can be applied here.  | |30 (reasonable lower limit of a GPS reading under good conditions if the actual precision was not recorded at the time)
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|minimumDistanceAboveSurfaceInMeters|Optional|Minimum height above the ground surface, in meters.  If no range of values collected, provide height measurement here| |4.2
Additional Fields for ESS-DIVE|Not represented|maximumDistanceAboveSurfaceInMeters|Optional|Maximum height above the ground surface, in meters.| |7.2
