## Standards or Templates included in the Sample Metadata Translation Table

**Standard or Template**|**Scope**|**Citation**
:-----|:-----|:-----
SESAR IGSN template field(s)|SESAR IGSN metadata was originally designed for geoscience samples, with particular emphasis on soil cores. The metadata schema has expanded over time to accomodate additional physical sample types, and basic metadata can accommodate a variety of sample types. Additional fields and terms are needed for water and leaf samples.|System for Earth Sample Registration (SESAR). 2020. SESAR Batch Registration Quick Guide (Version 7.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3874923
IGSN Core Descriptive Metadata Schema|There are eight active allocating agents for IGSN, and this includes the metadata kernal elements thought to be relevant across sample types.|https://github.com/IGSN/metadata/wiki/IGSN-Descriptive-Metadata-Version-1.0
Data Cite|The DataCite Metadata Schema is a list of core metadata properties chosen for an accurate and consistent identification of a resource for citation and retrieval purposes, along with recommended use instructions. The resource that is being identified can be of any kind, but it is typically a dataset. We use the term ‘dataset’ in its broadest sense. We mean it to include not only numerical data, but any other research objects in keeping with DataCite’s mission.|DataCite Metadata Working Group. (2019). DataCite Metadata Schema Documentation for the Publication and Citation of Research Data. Version 4.3. DataCite e.V. https://doi.org/10.14454/7xq3-zf69
Dublin Core|Dublin Core is a general set of metadata terms to describe a wide range of digital (e.g. images, webpages) and physical (e.g. books, artworks) resources. |"DCMI Specifications". dublincore.org. 14 December 2009. Retrieved 11 November 2019.
Darwin Core|Darwin Core is a glossary of terms to facilitate the sharing of information about biological diversity. Darwin Core is primarily based on taxa, their occurrence in nature as documented by observations, specimens, samples, and related information.|Darwin Core Task Group (2009) Darwin Core (Kampmeier G, review manager). Biodiversity Information Standards (TDWG) http://www.tdwg.org/standards/450
Minimum Information about any Sequence (MIxS) Core and Environmental Packages|Metadata standard developed by the Genomic Standards Consortium for samples sent for genomic and metagemomic analysis.  MIxS includes a central set of core descriptors and specific environmental packages (e.g. soil, sediment, water) for more complete descriptions of the environment from which a sample was collected.|https://press3.mcs.anl.gov/gensc/mixs/
ISO19156:201112 (Observations and Measurements) - Specimen|Observations and Measurements is an international standard to describe observations and features involved in sampling when making observations. The standard was developed by Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) in the context of geographic information systems (GIS), but is meant to be generic and not limited to spatial information.|S J D Cox (2010). "OGC Observations and Measurements - XML Implementation". Open Geospatial Consortium Implementation Standard. pp. 66 + ix. Retrieved 2019-11-18.
NEON Biorepository Data Portal|Metadata fields used to describe samples collected for the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) Biorepository. NEON science focuses on determining how aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems are changing over time. |https://biorepo.neonscience.org/portal/collections/index.php
JGI Genomes Online Database (GOLD)|Resource for comprehensive access to information regarding genome and metagenome sequencing projects, and their associated metadata, around the world|https://gold.jgi.doe.gov/
EPA Water Quality Exchange| | 
TDWG Collection Descriptions|This Collection Descriptions (CD) Interest Group evolved from the work of the Natural Collection Descriptions (NCD) group. CD members are developing a CD data standard for describing entire collections of natural history materials. Examples include collections of specimens, observation data, visual resources, photographs, and materials from the many voyages of discovery that have been conducted. Collection description records contain information about the collection, access and usage of the collection and where to get more detailed information.| 
EPA Water Quality Exchange|WQX Web enables data owners to submit physical, chemical, biological, habitat, index, and metrics data. WQX web relies on the common WQX format and schema. The Water Quality Exchange (WQX) data flow allows Network Partners to share ambient water quality data with EPA. As the primary framework for sharing data at the national level and compiling data in the Water Quality Portal, WQX replaces the distributed STORET database.|https://www.epa.gov/waterdata/water-quality-exchange-web-template-files
